+++
title="american psycho gpt-3 incomplete title"
date=2021-11-20
extra.tldr=""
+++

I have become alarmingly obsessed with the movie `American Psycho`, a cult-hit movie about a yuppie 80's wall street banker obsessed with projecting status and wealth who is so hollow that he kills scores of people just to feel *something*. I have:
* seen the move multiple times
* read the book
* subscribed to a spotify playlist of music from the movie
* dressed up as Patrick Bateman for Halloween
* watched hours of clips from the movie on YouTube
* listened to podcasts of analysis and opinions on the movie
* read blogs I found by just typing a quote that I recalled from the movie
* and have discussed the movie and its themes with my girlfriend many times.

My next stage of indulgence began when OpenAI finally opened access to their extremely powerful natural language processing model GPT-3 to the public. It has been in private beta for about 1.5 years and I have been wanting to play around with it. I played with some of their examples on their playground and got a general feel for how to interface with the program. 

When I was reading the book, there was a particular character and chapter that I really wish continued. The character's name is Courtney. She is Patrick's mistress and she is a character with pharmaceutically suppressed longings that occasionally surface. I find her to be a really interesting and sad character because she is essentially a drugged-up depressed 50's housewife stereotype just moved into the 80's in New York City. It is just a very blatant example of how this woman is coping with the lot she has been assigned in the society she finds herself in. In this chapter, she finally seems to muster the courage to break through to Patrick to say something that may be deeper than her typically polite small talk or chatter about some menu at the latest trendy upscale restaurant. A part of me feels like if Courtney could just sober up for a few days all of the feelings she is medicating would come out and she would be able to soberly evaluate the insanity of the world they live in. So in this experiment I went ahead and gave GPT-3 some context about the book, and gave it the chapter to complete.




This is a passage from Bret Easton Ellis's novel American Psycho. There are two characters in this chapter, Courtney and Patrick. Patrick is a deranged, materialistic serial killer whose sole focus is to appear sane and project wealth and status. Courtney is his mistress who is often under the influence of various drugs.
===
I’m in Courtney’s bed. Luis is in Atlanta. Courtney shivers, presses against me, relaxes. I roll off her onto my back, landing on something hard and covered with fur. I reach under myself to find a stuffed black cat with blue jewels for eyes that I think I spotted at F.A.O. Schwarz when I was doing some early Christmas shopping. I’m at a loss as to what to say, so I stammer, "Tiffany lamps... are making a comeback." I can barely see her face in the darkness but hear the sigh, painful and low, the sound of a prescription bottle snapping open, her body shifting in the bed. I drop the cat on the floor, get up, take a shower. On The Patty Winters Show this morning the topic was Beautiful Teenage Lesbians, which I found so erotic I had to stay home, miss a meeting, jerk off twice. Aimless, I spent an inordinate amount of the day at Sotheby’s, bored and confused. Last night, dinner with Jeanette at Deck Chairs, she seemed tired and ordered little. We split a pizza that cost ninety dollars. After toweling my hair dry I put on a Ralph Lauren robe and walk back into the bedroom, start to dress. Courtney is smoking a cigarette, watching Late Night with David Letterman, the sound turned down low."Will you call me before Thanksgiving?" she asks."Maybe." I button up the front of my shirt, wondering why I even came here in the first place."What are you doing?" she asks, speaking slowly. My response is predictably cool. "Dinner at the River Café. Afterwards Au Bar, maybe.""That’s nice," she murmurs."You and... Luis?" I ask."We were supposed to have dinner at Tad and Maura’s," she sighs. "But I don’t think we’re going to anymore.""Why not?" I slip on my vest, black cashmere from Polo, thinking: I am really interested."Oh you know how Luis is about the Japanese," she starts, her eyes already glazed over.When she fails to continue I ask, annoyed, "You’re making sense. Go on.""Luis refused to play Trivial Pursuit at Tad and Maura’s last Sunday because they have an Akita." She takes a drag off her cigarette."So, like..." I pause. "What happened?""We played at my place.""I never knew you smoked," I say.She smiles sadly but in a dumb way. "You never noticed.""Okay, I admit I’m embarrassed, but just a little." I move over to the Martian mirror that hangs above a Sottsass teakwood desk to make sure the knot in my Armani paisley tie isn’t crooked."Listen, Patrick," she says, with effort. "Can we talk?""You look marvelous." I sigh, turning my head, offering an airkiss. "There’s nothing to say. You’re going to marry Luis. Next week, no less.""Isn’t that special?" she asks sarcastically, but not in a frustrated way."Read my lips," I say, turning back to the mirror. "You look marvelous.""Patrick?""Yes, Courtney?""If I don’t see you before Thanksgiving…" She stops, confused. "Have a nice one?"I look at her for a moment before replying, tonelessly, "You too."She picks up the stuffed black cat, strokes its head. I step out the door into the hallway, heading down it toward the kitchen."Patrick?" she calls softly from her bedroom.I stop but don’t turn around. "Yes?""Nothing."